How do you like the arc of your career?
I mean, five novels now?
The first time I've seen the previous four novels described as a tetralogy, which is interesting.
Well, that's interesting.
I wouldn't know how to describe them myself, I guess about a year ago.
Did you see that in the LA Times?
No, I didn't.
The tetralogy of novels is not complete, which is striking out for me.
striking out for a new ground.
Well, the funny thing is either each novel is, I've noticed this thing is either Louise Erdrich is off the reservation, Louise Erdrich should go back to the reservation, Louise Erdrich should never have left the reservation.
Each one gets its own little spin, but the fact is they all are related, and I don't think that's going to stop.
I finally figured that I'm working on one long book.
So that's how it's going to be for a while.
I don't know at all.
And you mean that quite... I mean that literally, that each of these is part of a very long book.
And that, for instance, revising and adding two... Just anticipating my questions.
Yeah, Love Medicine was part of that.
I had several chapters that I hadn't had the foresight to put into Love Medicine.
I didn't really write anything new.
I just added what I had.
forgotten and didn't realize belonged in love medicine.
And I'll probably... It was already written.
It was already written, yeah.
Do you mind my exploring that just a bit?
No, a bit.
But why would you have gone back and tinkered with something that's finished work?
Yeah, I didn't revise it.
It wasn't revised, but I added to it.
There was a big distinction in mind here, because when I was working on it, I was just so overwhelmed with
I wrote things by hand and just threw them in a box.
So I had a big box of material.
And I was looking through it one day, and I realized I had chapters I really had not included.
So when Love Medicine came up to be re-licensed, I decided that instead of looking at it as a finished book, or as some sort of sacred thing, I would look at it as a kind of expanding file.
and I would put what I needed to put in there.
I've explored this with other writers.
Tim O'Brien very quietly has tinkered with Cacciato, for instance.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Tim, you know, doesn't this represent work that you did at a very crucial point in your development in your life, and isn't it time to go on and do something else?
I mean, Bill Kennedy has had an apple opportunity to fool around with the Intrep, which is his least successful novel.
And he said, it's finished work.
I leave it.
He leaves it, yep.
You know, I did that when I was in my 30s.
Right.
I'm someplace else now.
And what you're telling me now is that this is work that was already done, and you were just kind of... Yeah, I'm not tinkering with what's written.
I don't change the words.
You're not even tinkering with, but what you're doing is adding to what was published.
Yes, adding to what was published.
And there is a distinction.
To me, there is a big donation.
As a reader, there is something that I trust that the writer isn't going to go back and grab those words from under me like a rug, if I'm attached to those words.
And who knows what words
get to people in which don't.
I don't, and so I don't go back and change the words or change the... Yes, Henry James did.
Yes, yes, no, people do.
Yes, yes.
Henry James, with the New York edition, he was supposed to bring out the, you know, the preface, you know, I'd go in and rewrite the novel.
Rewrite the novel.
I mean, wasn't that Wordsworth who tinkered until he died?
It made the poems worse.
You can do that, too.
That's what I'm afraid of, too.
Leave it.
Yeah.
If you don't mind my going along on this thing.
Not a bit, because it's interesting to me, too.
Because you say it's one book.
It's one book.
My first question was, you know, I tossed it out, the arc of your career, and the arc of your career apparently is that you started on one book, and you're still writing it.
Well, I'd say it's more like the... I mean, if it has any shape, it's like the Great Plains.
It's just this long, flat road.
I'm on it pretty much for... It's not that I'm going to depart or come back to the novels anymore.
I'm just adding to a long...
But do you see this book as large as it may be, as a book that has a beginning, a middle, and an end in a unit?
Yes.
At some point.
I do.
There will be a corpus.
There will be.
It will be a book that has its beginning, middle, and end, yeah.
And you're still developing, you're still visualizing.
I'm still visualizing, because I have to now go back.
to the years before Trax.
And then I have to go, as I was writing the Bingo Palace, I realized that it has a companion book that goes on from it, as does Trax.
And so the next books are probably going to be, you know, I might do some short stories because I need to at least
sink a few new tap roots.
Have you done stories?
I think that's one thing.
I haven't done any non-related ones, and I wanted to do some that aren't related, just to think about it.
Is it a challenge as a fiction writer, or just a challenge?
Yeah, it's a challenge.
It's a challenge.
But I'm sure they'll end up being related to other people.
I thought this one would not be related until about three quarters through.
And then it turned out to be about the man in love medicine who
let June walk off into the snow.
It's very powerful.
And I remember it.
Oh, thank you.
You did remember when you first?
Yeah, I remember.
It's a very powerful thing.
It's a very powerful image.
It stayed with me.
For a woman.
It screwed the whole way.
Oh, yeah.
No, it's true.
But who was the man, you know?
And then I was writing about this Jack Mauser, and eventually it occurred to me that he had, something had to have happened to
throw him into this search for union, somehow, and what happened.
And finally, I saw him there in that bar and realized that she was his very first wife.
June was his very first wife.
And does this spring from that image, this novel?
The whole novel?
Yeah.
No, no.
That was way in the very last quarter of writing this book.
I wrote the beginning.
Genesis was the middle.
Started in the middle with this idea of these women.
First playing blackjack, I went and played a lot of blackjack just to see.
You went?
Of course not.
No, I lost.
We've got the world's largest tribal.
Sure you do.
That's 45 minutes from where I live.
Thankfully, I've only been twice.
Oh, you've been twice, though.
Oh, I'd probably go more if I had to win.
But I hate to go get money away.
I do too, but... I hate to lose.
I know, I hate to lose.
I hate to lose money.
Yeah, well... That's very hard to make.
Well, see, you're not going to get hooked into this, then.
I'd love to win, though.
Oh.
It's winning.
Winning is... Winning is... It's wonderful, but not losing.
Yeah, losing is bad.
It's bad.
Yeah.
I'm sorry to go off on it.
Not at all, but, you know, it really is... Blackjack.
Blackjack, yes.
I wouldn't play blackjack.
Well, I got more into it because I enjoyed the give and take between the dealer and the players and the relationship.
Yeah, she typically will advise you in not-so-subtle ways.
Mm-hmm.
It's good then, right?
You could really split those two cards.
Oh, I didn't know.
I didn't know.
You could held down.
Yeah, they'll say that.
I did that once.
Well, this doesn't always happen.
Doesn't always work.
I should have told you.
It doesn't always work.
You're taking a risk.
Well, no kidding.
Why are you guys in business?
I have cousins who are in tribal blackjack dealers.
So,
You know, and in, well, throughout the country, you know, these casinos have sprung up.
So, how did we get onto the casinos?
We were talking about the book began in the middle.
Oh, it began in the middle with this blackjack thing.
Yeah, and then I said, do you play?
Yeah, then we were... I shouldn't do that.
Not a bit, but anyway, so... No, I shouldn't, because you were telling me something important.
Yeah, well, anyway, so that's where it started, this idea of these women playing blackjack.
This is from a chiropractor.
It's important.
I can't believe that.
That's hilarious.
That's fine.
That's the best.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Oh, I can't.
So, anyway.
Oh, jeez.
I couldn't take that.
That's a classic.
Look at others.
No, you have more than one?
Yeah, I do.
It's really funny.
Are you serious?
You want to give me this pen?
I'll give you a chiropractic pen.
Are you kidding?
I'm going to find something.
We'll have to trade something.
I'll find something from North Dakota.
Oh, I've got a Mason Shoe Dealers pen.
Anyway, let's listen.
Back to the... Thank you.
I can't pour it.
Okay, let's get back to this.
Let's get back to the blackjack game.
I'm in the middle of the novel.
Okay, anyway.
So, yeah, I saw these women.
I just have to take this.
I saw these women trapped together in this car in a blizzard.
There had been a blizzard in, I think, 068 in Fargo, in which people really were trapped in this underpass.
And I remember being, you know, the complete shock of this.
And yet, every year, something like this would happen.
Indeed, people walked off into the snow.
Freezing and melting is really the theme of this book and the theme of
What, melting?
What love.
Well, yeah.
You know, at the end there's a lot of melting and there's a lot of freezing.
There's a lot of snow.
There's a lot of fire.
I mean, the book ends is snow.
Yeah.
You're looking for that.
That's right.
It is framed by snow.
Framed by snow.
Yeah.
And by his... After he, Jack, allows June...
and it's just summer months, to walk out into the snow, and, you know, he never sees her again until she's... She didn't even know his name.
No, she didn't even know his real name.
Yeah.
I mean, he didn't even give her his real name, and he married her.
Legally binding, apparently.
Well, at least to him.
Who knows, really.
But that's a true thing, too.
I had a friend in high school who did get his... He was a matchbook reverend, so, I mean, there's a detail.
true detail anyway.
So, he emotionally freezes.
He's paralyzed emotionally, I think, and throughout the rest of his next 20 years of life, he's haunted, paralyzed, and unable to really form a true, or to
to bear the depth of his own feelings.
You see, and he has to have that basic decency.
He's a jerk.
Yeah, he's a jerk.
Well, how can you... Yeah, he's a jerk with basic decency.
I mean, a total jerk wouldn't even have given a second thought.
No.
A stupid woman died.
Right.
That would be the attitude.
Yeah.
I mean, that would be the attitude of a worthless person.
Exactly.
But this guy felt badly enough that we do have some sense of
He's not a shallow person for all the mistakes he makes.
I think that's... I mean, it's not an anti-Jack novel.
Not a bit, I don't think.
I don't think so.
Oh, good, I don't... You know, four women who loved him, I mean... They loved him.
...for however long or short.
They didn't get by him, too, I think, which I think is important.
They survive him, but they don't start loving him, either.
Yeah, but there was a part of them that loved him, I guess.
Yeah.
But they did kind of outgrow him, too, don't you think?
I think they outgrow him, that's true.
Except for Eleanor, who maybe...she's the most neurotic of any of them, perhaps, even though she doesn't think of herself that way.
But perhaps...they have a very, you know, romantic, long-standing
relationship that survives other marriages somehow.
And, you know, the final explanation is that they're both sort of jerks who are decent at heart somehow.
And they really do love each other.
And there really is no, it's one of those, you know, I know they've got chemicals in the brain to explain romantic love and
everything that goes with it, but I hope to God they never get to the bottom of it.
That's a great line.
I'm always looking for the kicker of my story.
I think they just gave it to me.
The kicker is the last sentence.
When I heard that there was something in chocolate, it was also something they discovered, I thought... Don't let it be.
Don't let it be.
But, at any rate, I don't think.
I hope they don't.
Well, let's circle back to the premise again.
might say it's, you know, only coincidental, but coincidences happen in life.
Yeah, coincidences, too.
And I think you always have to accept it off his premise.
All right, the four women liked him enough to come to the funeral, right?
Right.
And they went off.
Or, you know, maybe the other thing is that, you know, they are all kind of in competition about what to do with his ashes, you know, his remains.
And that sort of rang true to me.
One woman decides, you know,
throws out the candy from his last cheap gesture, which was a big box heart of chocolates, and puts his ashes in it.
And then when she finds that he actually meant to give it to yet another wife, it was a mistake, she opens the ashes up and, of course, they blow on to the women and they can't really eradicate even his supposed remains from their clothing.
He's just with them.
He's just in them somehow.
Do you see the metaphoric possibilities of these things when you're writing, or are they just kind of things that spring from... Sometimes I have to really admit that story springs out of an actual story that happened to a mutual friend of Michael's and mine.
You know, the idea that the dearly beloved's ashes blowing back on you and not being able to get him out of your clothing is just...
You'll never forget the metaphoric possibilities of that.
It's true.
It is.
It's great.
Some of the things come from little incidents.
I don't know whether the man who actually decides to... I don't know if I should cut it...
immolate himself with his wife, where that came from, except that I felt it was necessary.
You know, you're talking about coincidences and kind of playing with that sort of thing, and that was acting out the exact, the burning love.
I mean, there was something that I couldn't resist about it, and through the book.
They don't bother me, by the way.
I don't know why they should bother other people.
Well, see, it's a book.
That's why, it's a book.
Why, why?
We have to accept the author and her, accept the premise.
And let's see how she pulls it off.
That's my job as a reader.
Yeah, that's good.
And do I enjoy it?
Yeah, you know?
I think that's what I, I like the story part of doing this so much.
It's a story about storytelling, too.
It is.
It's about storytelling.
It's almost, I mean, you can resonate with Boccaccio or Chaucer, you know?
That's where it starts.
They're almost pilgrims, aren't they?
They're on their way, not to Canterbury, but someplace else, and they're stuck.
And here we are.
What the hell are we going to do?
We're going to talk.
We're going to tell stories.
What are we going to tell stories about the common thread?
Absolutely.
It's the oldest thing.
And also, Isak Denison did one of these.
It's a stranded traveler's tale, you know, in Deluge at Nordinine.
And, of course, your references were very... I read these as I was working on this because I knew from the beginning it was, of course, something I had to...
Right, yeah.
But I thought it was going to be just that little central, you know, premise and piece that was going to be all, and then the, as you call it, the bookends, the end pieces, grew and grew and grew, which I think was very necessary, because then it became a novel, not just a novel.
Did it also exert pressure in the middle, though, from the polar ends?
No?
It probably did.
I started, this was the first book I wrote after starting to, after 23 years of not even touching the piano, starting to take piano lessons again.
And I had a wonderful teacher who told me, working on the Path of Teak, and she said, start learning the end first.
You don't have to start from the beginning and go to the end.
So I wrote the end for
about a year before I came back to the rest of it.
Yeah, I just had an interview with Otto Bettman.
Do you know who Otto Bettman is from the Bettman Archive?
Of course, yeah.
He's alive and well in Florida.
Really, huh?
I've decided he's the prologue of my next book, and he's also the world authority on Bach.
And I was taking some pictures of him after he was in here, and I said, we just kind of get some pictures of you at your work, and he starts to play this Bach piece.
I take the quarter line, and that's wonderful.
I said, why Bach?
He said, he always returns from the same place he started.
I mean, it's a continuum.
This man is 93 years old.
He's lived every decade of the 21st century.
Oh, what a... And I said, what if I get goosebumps?
And I said, God, there's the profile for the book, you know.
Yeah, that's wonderful.
I think we're using him way back in the back of the book.
Always returns.
But if you think Bach, always does return.
It's like a big jazz musician.
I mean, whatever the new problem is.
Then you have that, your heart just...
Yeah.
Just, it grabs you, doesn't it?
What you just said, absolutely.
Grabs you.
Connecting with me, I love it, the fact that you had that ending.
I love the writers.
The writers amuse me.
You say, I have no idea where it's going.
I grab it and it gets there.
Yeah.
But that didn't happen yet.
You knew where it was going.
Well, I worked on the end, and really because of working in, starting working on music again, and I realized that if you keep going from the beginning,
and working all the way through the piece to the end.
If you practice it that way, you're always going to lose energy.
But if you start at the end and stay with it, and don't even think about that beginning for a while, you're going to give a lot more to your beginning in the end.
So you have the bookends, as we've described them, and you have these characters.
Now, did they just start causing mischief on their own at some point?
Well, you know, I never get it.
That's the thing I don't get.
When people say, I couldn't control my characters, they just took me over, you know.
But I feel like I'm always, like, really controlling these people.
Maybe it's just a wishful sort of control freak type of thing, but I just feel like the best part of this is when I get them to do what I want them to do.
And I'm always kind of wrestling them into shape, you know.
Are you one of these artists who hears the voices?
Well, that happens, yeah.
If I'm really lucky, if I'm really concentrating, I get myself in a kind of... I set up my writing place with... I had this photograph the whole time sitting up in front of me.
My friend did it.
I just had everything around it that would remind me of these characters, and...
Every so often, it happens less and less as I get older as a writer, and that a voice will just step in.
And I start more and more seeing things with the omniscient perspective.
But when I was a younger writer, I would always hear the voices as though they were talking to me.
It doesn't happen as much anymore.
You started as a poet, and there has been a subsequent collection of poetry, I guess.
Now you're doing stories.
I know some stories.
Poetry still?
I do poetry, yeah.
Does it help you with fiction?
I don't know where that comes from, but I think that's the voice.
I think that I stopped for many years, and then it's sort of like the music.
I missed having those voices just ride into my consciousness and not really know where they were coming from.
So I thought, well, I'm just going to start, I'm going to stop assigning myself work for a while, which I was doing, you know, in order to write books that I'd figured out I wanted to write.
I'm just going to be at the mercy of the gods or whatever.
Do you see, do you visualize your writer's piece, an idea of reading the books?
Well, you know, from going on these things, I have a good idea.
of the range of people who do read, I think.
But maybe these are only people who come to readings or bookstores or whatever.
And often, you know, I really do write to see what Michael's going to think a lot of the time.
He's an ideal reader.
He's got a very critical mind.
And so to impress him, it's always this big task, you know.
But I also find it very hard to be in a situation where I'm going to meet a lot of readers, and I really don't write for anybody at all, except not even myself.
It's more that I write just because I have to do it.
Are you still allowed to Michael, or at what point do you find that it's good enough to pass along?
It always changes.
Parts of this I didn't, and parts I did.
It really is something that there's no, we don't have a real plan in mind.
I mean, sometimes it's very private, and I just want to keep to myself, and sometimes I'm eager to show it and share it.
Did you, I'm sure that, I've only read one review of the book so far, and it's very compliant with the book review.
Of course, is it a,
a statement at all?
There's been characters that certainly are for women, and male is decidedly offstage someplace.
Oh, you think so?
Well, no, not really, but I mean, in terms of being in the van and stuff like that.
Yeah.
I don't know what I'm asking, the kind of question I'm asking, but is it a novel that takes any kind of position
gender relationships, let's say.
Is that a question?
Yeah, does it take a... You can just enter that.
Enter it.
I don't think so.
I just couldn't, I can't figure it out.
I mean, and that's the, I think, the beauty of it all is that you can spend your time thinking about it, and you don't figure it out.
I had a
I mean, it's not a male-bashing novel.
No.
I don't think so.
But it's also not a women's buddy novel, you know.
It's a combination of... I hope it talks about the complexity and the mystery of love, because I haven't figured it out through this writing it.
All I know is that it's so powerful that you can't politicize it or control it, and it's one of the things that, you know... Do you consider this more, would you say, your most conventional novel of the five that you've written so far?
I thought Trax was really more conventional in its form, except that this has that traditional...
It certainly is the most ... It took me the longest to write, I suppose.
Did it?
Yeah.
I thought of that title way back in 78, and then I just kept adding to it.
It was like a box.
I was just going to keep putting things in, and I stopped every so often to do something else.
So this really wasn't written in a rush, in any way.
In other words, it became... Right.
You put this aside, and you go to something else?
Yeah, I keep kind of... Well, why?
Problems with it?
No, I, you know, I, for one thing, that revision of Love Medicine, I found that stuff, and I had to get that put back, and I had stuff that... And then that led to Bingo Palace.
And then I, yeah, then that led to the Bingo Palace, and then I wanted to do this memoir of writing and
having babies before the children got to be, you know, in their 20s.
So I had to do that.
And then I finally came back to this.
Finished it up.
What are you working on now?
Well, stories, but then also I'm working on a novel that takes place, what it actually is, is a series of letters to the Pope that a reservation priest has written through the years.
and never received an answer, so it's called The Last Report.
He's done reports on all of these occurrences up on the reservation, that's sort of the central place in love medicine, and he's very tired of not receiving answers from Rome, and so he's decided to make one last report on the miracles at Little No Horse, and in doing so, explains a lot of the things that do happen in
Love Medicine.
He's been the confessor for the whole reservation for a hundred years now, really.
You got a title for that?
It's the last report on the miracles at Little No Horse.
I'm loving to start this one.
That's going to be the interview thing.
I've got to do it.
It's from Wisconsin.
What were we saying?
I've got a lot of stuff, too, so don't worry.
I've got the books.
That's what matters.
I read the books.
Fiction writers, it's hard, but it's easy.
The interview is hard because I hate to ask you what the book is about.
That's my job.
But on the other hand, it's hard because then you want to find other things to talk about that are interesting as well.
You're telling me something.
Don't worry about it.
Yeah, we were talking about it.
I will say that the element of chance is, if we're looking for themes that do recur in your work, and we're talking about coincidence, maybe the better discussion is chance.
Maybe it's chance.
You know, the whole Bingo Palace had a... Really, that's what I'm thinking.
The gambling.
Yeah, yeah.
And you look back... What a metaphor for chance.
I mean, it's something you're talking about.
Sure.
And then in this book, you know, Marlis is saying, they're talking about the afterlife and, you know, Marlis' whole metaphor is welcome to the casino.
You know, the house always wins in the end.
And, you know, you're just in this for as long as the house decides you're in it.
You're not in it.
with any control over your destiny, really, or your life.
No, I love games of chance.
I always lose, but, you know, I love the metaphor that they... There's always card games going on, and... And you use a couple on your dedication page.
You do have a couple of the hearts.
Yeah, Jack and the Queen, and Michael didn't want to be the king.
Let me be the queen.
He was a jack.
That's great.
Yeah.
I like that.
And I'm trying to get it there as I get it.
It's from the...
Yeah.
Well, it was also, I was going to make it, you know, I was going to make it a natural, you know, like when you pretend you want an ace and a queen and you, you don't want that either.
You want to be the Jack.
That's great.
Yeah.
And of course, Jack, you're talking about Jack, he certainly, he does have a child, but I mean, he certainly doesn't populate the world with his children.
Thank God, no.
Or else would there be any honest contractors.
Yeah, but you need another generation of characters.
Yeah, but then I'm stuck with them like this Sean, you know, she, the Jerry's daughter, I had, then you have to work out their destinies.
So yeah, there's this kid, but I also, I couldn't handle too many.
There was just, there was getting to be, I really have never had a cast of characters
quite as large, I think.
Maybe that's, well, maybe I have, but I haven't.
Do you keep track of them all?
Do you have a chart?
Yeah, a lot of, a lot of charts.
For one of your books, they said the press kit, which I have, you know.
Really?
With the chart.
Oh.
Do you remember that, for tracks?
For tracks, yeah.
I think Blanche
I figured that one out.
Yeah.
I've saved all of this stuff.
Geez.
I didn't remember that.
Well, it's nice.
It's a nice piece of ephemera.
Ephemera, yeah.
Because it just changes.
And now I have a... I've kind of paled up with... Michael has it in his head.
I have it in my head.
And then the guy who was mentioned in the beginning, Trent Duffy, has it all on this computer thing.
And you can access it.
You got a database.
I got a database.
Is that right?
He's got it all.
Yeah, he did it.
There's no chance of killing somebody off and then writing about them later, you know, when they're dead, I mean.
Well, I made a lot of strange errors that have led to plot.
I mean, that's the thing with this interconnected kind of thing.
You then, you have to just, you know, I stay up and I wake up at night thinking, how do I resolve this?
And it really does lead some of the plot stuff
is this Rube Goldberg kind of stuff, trying to explain how the character in a former book got to be in that situation.
And I haven't asked you any of the questions you've asked dozens of times about writing Native American tradition and all that stuff.
I think we've done that.
Yeah, we've probably done that.
I think it's been done.
It is interesting, though, that your first book, nobody wanted it.
Isn't that right?
Because it was considered it.
Because it was considered like, who cares?
That's the same thing Bill Kennedy ran into.
Right.
They told him who was interested in a bunch of mums in Albany.
Really.
They wouldn't read the book.
Right.
Yeah.
No, that was true.
Sorry, but there was also some odd stuff.
I'm almost forgetting this.
restructure it so it happens.
A lot of stuff that probably every writer comes up against it.
It's interesting being here because the first kind of, I don't know, the kind of dream of
It wasn't even a dream.
I never knew this was possible, but remember the Atlantic Monthlies to be down here?
C. Michael Curtis.
Do you know?
He's still the editor there.
I kept sending, I kept shooting him every version of everything that came in, and finally he kind of, he just, wham, he just took one, and I was as stunned as could be.
But that was this...it was St.
Marie, it was from the Law of Medicine, and I think he really kind of took a chance on that.
There was not much written about the virulent forms of Catholicism, missionized Catholicism, and I think he's a religious man.
I think people, because of the fact that the first four novels are based
on the reservation, so to speak.
Yeah.
People think that this is maybe all you should know.
The fact is you're comfortable in any number of different... Oh, yeah.
I mean, my background is so mixed.
And you don't have to tell it to me.
I know.
No.
You know the whole thing.
I mean, I...
Also, there's a mixture of people in them, but I think the Native stuff is the hook that, and I think it's largely academy-driven because people want to, it's taught to students in Native American literature courses, or in women's, or, you know, there's some little... I'd love to go on an academy trip.
I'm going to ask you to describe these.
Sure.
I'll just shut this off.
I'll get this, if you don't mind.
Go ahead.
Oh, sure.
I was going to say that transfers thing.
For me, it's the reason I have all my books in a handwritten version.
I like to have my handwriting there before me again, so it proves to me that I actually sat and wrote it with my own hands.
I go back to the beginning of
love medicine that's written on.
I like old paper, so I can sometimes write on old paper.
Friends send me old sheaves of telegraph paper.
I've got old notebooks.
The old stuff before there was acid in it, it's still fine, and so I've got stuff that's written on these big old ledgers.
And then I start adding
I start adding photographs to it, and I start making my... My book has to be my book before it can be anybody else's book, you know.
This is good.
Oh, good.
I use this.
This is good.
Well, good.
Go ahead.
It's good.
Yeah.
No, because it's... I'm trying to... Because the final chapter is... I'm really concerned... What is computers going to do?
What are computers going to do?
I want to do that, too.
To create a process.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I'm going to try and find out.
You know, I'm going to go see Maurice Sendak, who has all this stuff.
I mean, he has extraordinary collections and how it affects his tree, whatever he does.
And I hope to see Susan Sante.
I'd like to go to find out just how much of her books are in her.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, I eventually get to the computer, but I've got all my manuscripts, like, huddled around me.
in boxes and books and notebooks.
I'm looking for more women for this book.
Come visit.
Do you have a field box or a phone number?
I can reach you through Jane or something.
Sure.
My phone is 612-377-3812.
I'd love to know what other writers do with this because it just...
It gets to you after a while.
You feel like the closet... I don't even know where it's going.
I just want to go and talk with them and just see.
I do love writing this kind of book.
I have a wonderful proposal and it's very detailed with a fabulous content.
I don't know where it's going.
It was one of your books where they changed a couple of the priorities.
I mean, just for me, my sense is that it was either a legal problem or it didn't fit in.
No, no, you can put it on the record.
It's fever.
Well, that was what it was.
Isn't that nice?
Thank you.
They did the poem, didn't they do, they did the background.
Wonderful.
I remember.
You know, because my book is very large, and it's just funny this week.
That $35 book is like $60,000.
It's not bad, but that's how poor books are.
You know, it seems better today, you know, he's doing...
And I'm talking in all the libraries at the Captain and Harvard and the Library of Congress, and, you know, and I don't want to worry if it's irrelevant, and the topics are going on media.
It's a powerful thing, you know, it's how it takes you away from your work, but you really are connecting with these people, and you do get it, and I do find the Antiquarian Book Fair.
And one of the things I do is talk about the lines and get out of here.
I want to know who you are, what brought you to my book, what do you like?
And I write something personal, and I'll say, do you mind?
And they say, no, keep going.
Do you mind that I take a little time?
And I really want to know each person.
And it's like you said in one of your interviews.
You go to one of these independent book stories.
These people want to come and talk.
I was signing in New York last week, I remember.
A few of people have come up with one guy on a carland.
One guy on a carland restaurant.
He gave me the disease.
I wrote it down, I took a card, and he said, I want to invite you to my left hand.
Bring your life, bring your daughters, you know, and you gave me the disease.
It's a part of my book of Implementer Madness, and it's about, you know, the delivery of many lives.
One after the other.
I mean, it's been very humbling after a while, because you're lying, it's been a year for this time.
And I was in publicers, I was in orphaned, I was in
I had been thrown out of London's house, ceremonially well, for no reason.
I was in the practice, it was too long, and I would, my relative, return to another house.
I don't know, it took me another year to sell the book.
But things worked right, you know, things worked out for the fact, over there.
I don't care about that.
It's just that.
It's a book pool, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, you know, a thousand-year-old, and a thousand-year-old, and a thousand-year-old, and a thousand-year-old, you know.
And they did that in the books.
They always gave me a whole window in New York.
They said it's so beautiful at some point.
And people understood buying more now.
That's how good they sell them.
That's well, I mean, it's magnificent, yeah.
I said, this is the traffic.
And I guess I brought a car, but I gave him the original illustrations, and it's got the decorations.
But she just took that, and this.
makes me feel, and I've never met her, I've never talked to her, you know, but I've left a hundred people at me, you know, and I won't, and she looked at it and skipped it, and I said, you are over here after the stream.
You really are, because you just did something, she made it look like,
a handful of leather bindings.
It's an old, you know, old stuff to do with that.
I mean, there's your, there's such a lot of logos, a librarian and stuff.
They gave these end sheets.
They didn't have to do it.
They gave these two signatures, these photos instead of one.
They did these end notes and regular-sized types, not all that interesting.
It's over 638 pages.
I mean, so when it came time, and I'm writing this, and then the book gets
I got a terrific proposal for a companion work.
You use that word, and that's my word.
You've got a few more people, but, you know, it's a payment.
It's not going to be collecting, it's not going to be a collection, it's going to be a culture.
I'm going to go to, I'm going to make it a little clear through history.
I'm going to go to maybe this library that has been so significant through history, just for one opening chapter, I'll go to Ephesus.
and then go to St.
Galliard, amongst the copies of all the books, and then go to Patmos in the region, a 900-year-old monastic library, uninterrupted, amongst the documents, a copy of the manuscript for 900 years, taken, uh, Armenians, Armenians, on an island, off his head.
you know, preserving the history of our years.
I love it.
I interviewed him.
He wrote a blurb.
He wrote a blurb for my book, which he didn't use any blurb.
But Tom Stato said my book was, he just went bananas over it.
He gave up this to me that's the right thing that's spectacular.
You know, the idea was I got the book collected, I got the scholars, I got the librarians.
I said, no, I don't want Yale.
I want people.
I want a place where I live.
I've got children.
I've got a life.
I've got a house.
I've got to be able to live in here.
There's no shame in making a living.
You didn't hear me say, I love it when people say, we'll even join a commercial with this book.
What the hell are you supposed to do?
What are you doing this for?
I don't know.
What does that mean, I wonder?
I'm not asking for the record.
I don't want the answers to that.
I think that's something, actually, without the respect.
The CW gave you a glorious review, and then they said, her most commercial book, yes.
What did they mean by that?
Do you think that's her most commercial book?
No, I haven't, but... He's got a great time on this stuff.
I mean, he's just right out there.
You know, I'm going to try it.
I mean, I didn't think I ever made it.
You know, I don't know.
My agent called yesterday.
I finally said, I didn't know of yesterday.
Oh, my, my, my, my next book.
And my first therapy truck came out in July of last year.
Yeah, I finally gave eight.
And he gave me the number, I mean, and, uh,
You know, that's not too easy.
My wife, God blesses them working and doing this, and we've got our kids in private school, and she would say we chose them to do it.
But we're in depth, you know, and I would have said we're not.
And what am I supposed to say?
I could have gone with Yale and sold the final copies in my book.
This is what I do.
I don't understand it.
It's the text, you know, and I've got to find it.
See, there's supposedly a point at MIT that I understand there was a study of four years ago
where, I mean, there's lots of MIT people who will tell you that the same text on a computer screen is different, has different insights, is negative from people, and it goes in the book.
I mean, how you read a printed page, what you read in the printed page is different from what you read on a manuscript page and also on a computer screen.
Oh, I believe that.
We would have a good case in the Museum of Florida, and I don't even have a portable computer, so it was, well, we fell in my hands.
And people tell me, it was different.
Well, I mean, I do write a computer, because it is how it is.
Thank you.
Bobby Lowe, come out, please.
I'm going up.
Hello.
.
Thank you.
Thank you
.
Hi, what is the Cascade and Jewel?
Sorry.
Thank you.
You taught English?
Are you a doctor anyway?
Yeah, I am.
This one there?
Yeah, the police.
Thank you very much.
Uh, call?
Yep.
Thank you.
.
Heaven.